welcome back to recap cinema today i
will show you a south korean dramatic
thriller released in 2019 called
parasite there are spoilers ahead
watch out and enjoy
this is a story about two families who
are strangely brought together in a
twist of fate at the beginning you are
shown how the first family is living due
to their financial struggles in life
and how each resource they own is
extremely limited here you can see the
father following a tutorial on how to
fold pizza boxes so he can get his work
done faster while doing so they have a
chemical gas poured through their
windows which he sees as free
extermination when the family hand in
their work the next day they get told
that it isn't good enough and they are
going to have their paydoct so the kids
bargain for more
that evening a man urinates in front of
their home showing disrespect they tell
their son to do something about it but
his friend then arrives and fixes the
situation
he is more well-off than them and says
his granddad has got a gift to give them
on the box is a ornate gold lock that
looks very expensive
he is extremely intrigued and his friend
says it's a rock that supposedly brings
big wealth to whoever owns it him and
his friend then go and catch up over a
drink at the local store here they
discuss about a girl his friend is
tutoring and how when he goes away to
college he could take his place and lie
about having an english major as her
family aren't the brightest they
wouldn't know
here they start to discuss the plan of
how his sister is going to forge a
letter from oxford university so they
can fool the family even further with
his false major as a finishing touch she
places a stamp of approval
he shows his father the forged document
and explains how the plan is going to
work and how this could bring them lots
of money his father is extremely proud
as he walks off to where he is going
here you see him arriving at the
family's home and ringing the buzzer he
is taken back with how big and
impressive it all looks as he walks
through the large oak door into the
garden revealing the monument of the
house in front of him
he takes in his surroundings
this is where you first see how big the
division between his and their life
really is
the nanny greets him at the door and
brings him inside clearing up kids toys
as she goes and explaining how the
little boy leaves a tip everywhere she
tells him to sit and wait while she gets
the mother here you get to see the first
image of their supposedly perfect family
on a mural on the wall
as he looks out the window the nanny
claps in the woman's face to wake her up
they then sit and talk about how the
woman is sad his friend has gone away to
college and hopes that he is just as
good at tutoring her daughter as he was
she explains how she would usually sit
in the first lesson and says in english
is that okay
which comes across in a rather creepy
manner here you see the daughter
studying he is tentatively inspecting
the work she does
as she answers a question he grabs her
wrist to check her heart rate the mother
is shocked
he explains that if she was confident in
her answer her heart rate would remain
calm yet it peaked showing her nerves
in a direct voice he says that she
should always follow what her heart
feels is right and it will end up okay
in the end
as the mother is counting out the pace
she is going to give him we see that she
clearly underpays him which the boy
doesn't realize
yet she then offers for him to stay for
a snack as the nanny brings fruit in in
the background of these scenes you can
see her son playing the game indians she
seems to get very startled and flustered
by this as if she is on edge he is quite
imaginative and has artistic talent
which the mother then goes to show the
boy the mother then goes on to explain
that they have never been able to keep
an art teacher too long because of his
erratic behavior in response the boy
sees an opportunity and explains how he
knows someone who has an art major that
would be perfect for the job the woman
seems thrilled about this and invites
her for an interview instantly in
reality this person is his sister
the little boy is then seen spying on
the girl when his sister smacks his head
and takes his place
she glares around the corner with a
skull in her eye
it then jumps back to her english lesson
where she is trying to find out whether
he fancies the girl or not however he
has to play it off as not to give away
they are related
she gets upset as she thinks that he
doesn't find her as attractive as the
girl he introduced to the mother he then
goes on to explain that she is as
beautiful as a flower but this isn't to
do with the english lesson at hand they
then stare at each other longingly and
finally share an intimate kiss
the mother then seems quite flustered as
she is showing the art teacher to the
boys room
even though she usually sits in on the
first lesson the girl requests she
leaves them b to become acquainted we
then see the mother rushing to the
cellar to get a drink so that she has an
excuse to go up and see what's happening
however as she comes back up the teacher
and the boy are sat at the table waiting
already she quickly walks to the table
and we can already see that the boy's
behavior is dramatically improved since
earlier in the film the mother sits to
speak to the teacher as she is told that
the boy is displaying an element of
stress through his work and wondering
whether there was any trauma in his
younger years
which there was as you could see by her
reaction
she then points to his other work as
there seems to be a repeat of the
stressed area shown the teacher explains
that this is why he can be erratic
the father then arrives home he
introduces himself to the girl and tells
her that his driver will take her home
as it's dark outside and not safe for a
young girl to walk alone when she is in
the car the two are chatting and when
she asks us to be dropped at the station
instead of her door he becomes very
pushy and tried to take her home
she sees an opportunity for her family's
plan and removes her underwear hiding it
under the seat
here you can see the family discussing
how the plan is going and the daughter
explains how she has made the mother
believe she knows what she is doing by
just googling art therapy phrases as
well as the trap she has set in the
driver's car you then see the father
back with the driver when he discovers
some underwear in front of his seat he
looks disgusted and confused he then
arrives back home startling his wife and
taking her to the kitchen to show what
he has found he proceeds to call the
driver a scumbag
while the wife looks horrified they go
on to discuss how they are shocked he
could do something like this to them in
the father's seat no less the father
then starts to question the type of
woman that would leave their underwear
behind
he says how it's normal to leave an
earring or hair
but you would have to be on drugs to
forget your own private garments he
tells the mother to relax while this
conversation is happening you can see
the teacher he's dropping at the stairs
before she then pretends to come down
from the lesson the two are startled by
this hiding the underwear swiftly as the
mother is walking her out she carefully
asks if the teacher noticed anything
suspicious or weird when being driven
home the other day the teacher explains
how pushy he was about where she lived
but she wouldn't reveal it to him she
then asks if something happened which
the mother quickly tries to move past
saying she is too innocent for it the
teacher then plants the next seed
explaining how an older driver is better
to have as they are more experienced and
careful she explains how her family may
know somebody that could step in which
the mother is ecstatic about as she
greets her dogs saying she seriously
wants to meet them
we then see the father preparing to
replace the driver as he arrives at his
new boss's place of work to introduce
himself
showing his manners the whole time
here you see the two chatting as the
boss says that this isn't a test
during the whole ride the father is
reaching a level of understanding and
respect while showing how good he is at
what he does the boss is impressed by
his vast knowledge of the roads you then
see and glance at his coffee and chuckle
as he is shocked by how smooth the ride
actually is
as he iterates that not a single drop
spilt the next phase is then started the
current nanny is highly allergic to
peaches even the fuss sets are off so
the family start to collect peach fuzz
and plant it around her constantly in
order to make it seem like the nanny has
some illness she is then seen at the
hospital which the father manages to
catch on camera this then obviously
concerns the mother massively you can
see him practicing his lines in order to
make the speech that she has tv more
believable here you see the teacher
receives a text to plant the final dose
of peach around her so that when the
mother gets home all she can see is the
nanny coughing and spluttering the
father walks over to the bin places hot
sauce on the tissue as to make it look
like blood and shows the mother
she is horrified by this and instantly
passes out
we then see the nanny has been fired
making it time to plant the next seed
the driver hands his boss a car that
says the care
he explains it's a high class
subscription service where you can hire
discreet housekeepers the boss seems
impressed and takes his driver's advice
he gets his wife to phone the number as
she isn't the brightest when they ask
for personal financial details she hands
them straight over no questions asked
the new nanny is now all set in place
the family are then seen packing to go
on holiday trusting that they can leave
the house in the care of their nanny as
she fits right into their life she fits
so much that while they are away we see
the family making themselves so at home
that the house could actually be their
own
they truly are soaking it all in later
as they are spending time together we
see the weather change dramatically
which gives a very eerie atmosphere to
what is going on at the house while they
are sat talking about how in the future
this could all be theirs they hear a
sound through the door buzzer this
startles them the mother goes over and
sees that it's the old maid she seems to
be extremely persistent when ringing the
buzzer and even describes the photo
above the screen to try and prove she is
who she says she is
she manages to get herself inside by
saying that she forgot something in the
basement once she is inside you can see
how battered her face is she then makes
her way down to the basement much to the
mother's surprise we then see her trying
to push the cupboard away from a hidden
door on the wall she gets the door open
and we see her stumble down a green lit
hallway and down some stairs the twisted
shock is that she is then seen
comforting a grown man that's been
living in the basement she goes on to
say she cut the security camera wire so
nobody knows she is there so the mother
decides she should call her boss
as she is begging her not to you see
that the man isn't quite all there the
family then slip on the stairway the
woman sees that she has some leverage
and starts recording it as her husband
crawls up the stairs she says that if
the nanny calls the boss then she will
send them this to show they are faking
it she makes them kneel painfully to
embarrass them until eventually a fight
breaks out for the phone
everybody is piling on top of each other
aggressively
suddenly they freeze still as they hear
the phone ring it's the mother phoning
to let her know they are on their way
back because of a flood in the road and
to make sure they have some ramen ready
to eat as they get in the door as she is
rushing to get the food done you see the
father dragging the man and his wife
down the stairs and tying them up so
that they can't escape as the family
walk upstairs the daughter manages to
slip under the table then as the boss
walks to the kitchen the mother kicks
the woman back down the basement stairs
knocking her out the father drags the
woman to the door and rushes down to
check on the man as you see him smacking
his head against the wall aggressively
the mother is sat with a nanny
discussing the trauma her son has had on
his last birthday he snuck down to eat
some cake when a man's head appeared at
the top of the basement stairs his eyes
bulging out his face the boy now refuses
to spend his birthday home
little do they know that that man isn't
a ghost but living under their house the
father breaks the basement handle so
they can't escape and hides under the
table as the family come down as the boy
is camping in the garden the parents
decide to sleep on the sofa where the
father hears all the awful things being
said about him once they are asleep the
family are able to slide out from the
table and run towards the door making
their grand escape into the rain they
get to the garage and manage to sneak
out here you see them running all the
way downtown where the flood has gotten
so bad that people's homes are having to
be evacuated
including theirs the sewage water had
gotten so high into their home that
nothing was salvageable
except the fortune rock and a few
personal items because of this the
family are forced to stay in a shelter
until the storm has ended
leaving them looking extremely
distraught the next morning the teacher
receives a call that there is going to
be a party for the little boy's birthday
and that he wants her to come to show
the divide even more we see the family
fighting for clothes while the woman
just picks hers out they then go on to
help set up the party by buying food and
placing tables out the woman goes on to
make rude comments about the smell
coming from the driver before eventually
arriving and greeting with her friends
for the party the driver is asked to act
out indians and cowboys for the little
boy while the daughter is asked to be
the cake queen that presents it to him
in this elaborate birthday scheme while
this is happening in the bunker the son
is checking on the two that are down
there when he gets choked by the man
he tries to escape but gets yanked
backwards by the coil and had his head
battered in by the same rock that was
meant to bring them luck the man then
makes his way up to the party and in a
rage stabs the daughter in the chest the
little boy sees this and passes out
instantly in all of the madness the
father sees that his son is gushing
blood from his head he is frozen still
so he throws his boss the keys to the
car but they land underneath the man
that's been living in the basement here
they meet for the first time in a state
of pure anger and a shock to us all the
father runs at his boss stabbing the
knife through his chest
then runs into the distance escaping the
crime scene later on we then see that
the boy managed to survive all of his
injuries however he has severe brain
damage and can't control how he reacts
to a lot of things due to all of this he
is relieved from his sentence and goes
on spending his days with his mother
unfortunately his sister didn't survive
the stabbing as time passes and he
gradually gets better he looks into
where his father could have gone as he
seems to have disappeared into thin air
he seems to find himself constantly
going back to the house where it all
happened which is where he notices the
hall light flickering in an odd pattern
he records each light on his phone and
tirelessly translates it into morse code
it's a message from his father we can
now see how the father managed to
survive all this time
after he started to run he managed to
slip through the garage and up the
stairs
and all the commotion nobody seemed to
notice
he then chose to hide out in the
basement seller learning to morse code a
message for his son as he knew that he
would be able to work it out the son
goes on to explain how when he gets
older and has money of his own he will
come back to the house and buy it the
day they move in all the father will
have to do is walk up the basement
stairs to the garden where they will be
waiting with open arms but for now that
is all a hopeful dream
who knows when this could really happen